User Guide Index (#6995)
nautobot/nautobot: nautobot/docs/user-guide/index.md

# User Guide Overview

> Welcome to the Nautobot User Guide! The User Guide is designed to help you setup, use and operate your Nautobot installation. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Welcome to the Nautobot User Guide! The User Guide is designed to help you setup, use, and operate your Nautobot installation. 
```

Author: oxford comma strikes again :P

There are four main headings within the guide: 

- **Administration**: Go here for [installation](./administration/installation/index.md), [migration](./administration/migration/migrating-from-netbox.md), [configuration](./administration/configuration/index.md) and [upgrade instructions](./administration/upgrading/upgrading.md).

> - **Feature Guides**: Walk through these guides if you are a [new user to Nautobot](./feature-guides/getting-started/index.md) and wondering how perform common tasks in the Web UI. 

Reviewer: up for debate, but we have nautobot navigators that may make sense to point to.

Reviewer 2: Let's maybe have the fourth quick links panel for new users be links to any useful media like the navigators playlist?

Author: Good idea. Navigators and I think 100 days of nautobot is also a good thing to point to IMHO

> - **Feature Guides**: Walk through these guides if you are a [new user to Nautobot](./feature-guides/getting-started/index.md) and wondering how perform common tasks in the Web UI. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Feature Guides**: Walk through these guides if you are a [new user to Nautobot](./feature-guides/getting-started/index.md) and wondering how to perform common tasks in the Web UI. 
```

> - **Core Data Model**: Read the [data models](./core-data-model/overview/introduction.md) as a more advanced user to better understand how the core application is structured. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Core Data Model**: Read about all the Nautobot [data models](./core-data-model/overview/introduction.md) to better understand what information you can store in Nautobot.
```

> - **Platform Functionality**: Explore this area for deep-dives on specific Nautobot functionality such as [Jobs](./platform-functionality/jobs/index.md), [APIs](./platform-functionality/rest-api/overview.md) or [Git repository integration](./platform-functionality/gitrepository.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Platform Functionality**: Explore this area for deep-dives on the many Nautobot extensibility features, such as building automation with [Jobs](./platform-functionality/jobs/index.md), programmatically accessing data through the [REST](./platform-functionality/rest-api/overview.md) and [GraphQL](./platform-functionality/rest-api/overview.md) APIs, or using [Git repositories](./platform-functionality/gitrepository.md) as a data source.
```

## Quick Links

!!! Tip
    Are a **new user** looking to get started with Nautobot?

<!-- pyml disable-num-lines 30 no-inline-html,proper-names -->
<div class="grid cards" markdown>

- :material-cloud-download:{ .lg .middle } **Installing Nautobot**

    ---
    Get up and running with a [Nautobot install](./administration/installation/index.md) on your own Linux Platform or in a Docker environment.

- :material-play-network:{ .lg .middle } **Using Nautobot**

    ---
    Dive into [how to use Nautobot](./feature-guides/getting-started/index.md) and the key components of the core web interface.

> - :material-transition-masked:{ .lg .middle } **Migrating with Nautobot**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- :material-transition-masked:{ .lg .middle } **Migrating to Nautobot**
```

    ---

>     Dig into how you can [migrate from Netbox](./administration/migration/migrating-from-netbox.md) to Nautobot seamlessly. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Dig into how you can [migrate from NetBox](./administration/migration/migrating-from-netbox.md) to Nautobot seamlessly. 
```

</div>

!!! Tip
    Are you an **existing User** with Nautobot looking to dig deeper?

<!-- pyml disable-num-lines 30 no-inline-html,proper-names -->
<div class="grid cards" markdown>

- :material-api:{ .lg .middle } **Nautobot APIs**

    ---
    Check out the [REST API documentation](./platform-functionality/rest-api/overview.md) covering both basic features and advanced use cases. 
    
    Are you looking for [GraphQL](./platform-functionality/graphql.md) APIs instead? If you are new to GraphQL, you can also read the [Nautobot GraphQL User Guide](./feature-guides/graphql.md)

- :material-briefcase:{ .lg .middle } **Nautobot Jobs**

    ---
    Looking to use Nautobot to host your custom coding logic on demand? 
    
    Check out [Nautobot Jobs](./platform-functionality/jobs/index.md) which can also leverage your Nautobot data to automate using your Python code. 

> - :material-fire:{ .lg .middle } **Nautobot & NAPALM**

Reviewer: this is going away, so should likely consider something else.

Reviewer: perhaps app development or other apps in general.

Reviewer 2: I assume you're talking about the NAPALM part, but the selection above makes it look like it's jobs going away :) Since this is 2.0 docs, I don't see harm in leaving that panel there for now.

Good call on adding apps - but not yet development, let's point at existing apps they can install to extend the functionality of Nautobot.

Reviewer: yes, only speaking about napalm, it's just the way github shows context, even though it's only earmarked to a single line.

Author: Sounds good, didn't know about the NAPALM going away, but will in add in an Apps one. I will point to 
https://networktocode.com/nautobot/nautobot-apps/
since that is a full list of apps more than the apps docs page
https://docs.nautobot.com/projects/core/en/stable/apps/

!!! Tip
    Already familiar with Nautobot and looking to expand your knowledge? Check out these advanced topics.
<!-- pyml disable-num-lines 23 no-inline-html -->
<div class="grid cards" markdown>

- :material-api:{ .lg .middle } **Nautobot APIs**

    ---
    Check out the [REST API documentation](./platform-functionality/rest-api/overview.md) covering both basic features and advanced use cases.

    Are you looking for [GraphQL](./platform-functionality/graphql.md) APIs instead? If you are new to GraphQL, you can also read the [Nautobot GraphQL User Guide](./platform-functionality/graphql.md).

- :material-briefcase-edit-outline:{ .lg .middle } **Jobs**

    ---
    Looking to run your custom Python code on demand?

    Explore [Nautobot Jobs](./platform-functionality/jobs/index.md), which leverage your Nautobot data to automate using your Python code.

- :material-fire:{ .lg .middle } **Nautobot & NAPALM**

    ---
    Are you curious how [NAPALM integrates with Nautobot?](./platform-functionality/napalm.md) Learn how you can use NAPALM functionality to fetch live data from network devices.

- :material-view-dashboard:{ .lg .middle } **Nautobot Apps & Solutions**

    ---

>     Discover the power of [Nautobot Apps & Solutions](https://networktocode.com/nautobot/nautobot-apps/), from the Golden Configuration app enforcing configuration compliance to the SSoT app synchronizing data across multiple sources of truth.

Reviewer 3: Should we linkify Golden Config and SSOT here as well?

>     These apps are both open source and commercially supported by Network to Code.

Reviewer 3: Are we talking about all apps from https://networktocode.com/nautobot/nautobot-apps/ or just Golden Config and SSoT. If it is the former, then we probably should do:
```suggestion
    These apps are all open source and commercially supported by Network to Code.
```
It is a little ambiguous IMHO.

Author: Makes sense, yeah I was trying to give two examples as illustrative of all the apps, so that change is helpful.
